Until this point we have been using the default agent, which is the AC to head.
The Jenkins is running for all our Jenkins file.
So now let's venture a little bit further and use a Docker container as our agent.
And even though I title the lecture as building python code with Docker because I'm going to show this
demo with Python, but the same approach will work for any programming language, not just Python.
All right.
Let's get started.
First, let's try to understand the high level flow and the advantage of using Docker container as the
agent.
So let's say you checked in your code such as API in your GitHub repository, and now you want to compile
this code, create the byte code, and you want to run some unit test.
So using what we have known so far, you will do a check out ACM which will bring this application,
that Python code into that Jenkins agent, which is the Amazon to and then to do the build and unit
test.
This is how to needs to have the python installed and a py test installed.
PY test is a tool that you can use to unit test your python code and at this point in your Jenkins file,
you will run shell commands to compile the python code as well as running the command to run Python
test.
Also, this whole thing is very fashion sensitive.
So maybe while coding in your local desktop you use a specific version of Python and your production
runs that version.
But maybe in this Amazon issue you have some other version of Python easy to install.
So there could be some problem when you deploy your code to production.
So using Docker container solves all that.
So how would this look like?
So instead of building a unit testing on the default Amazon EC2 agent, you will start running two different
container inside the CC two and these containers will serve as agent.
So for building you will grab a build container from container repository such as docker hub.
This container image will have the appropriate python version installed and this version will match
all your environment.
Similarly, for unit testing, you will run this container image which has pi test installed.
What about the ESI two?
You don't have to worry about the AC two at all.
You don't even need a python or pi test installed in this ESI to ESI two only needs the docker installed
so that this container images can run.
I am showing this with python, but the same approach will work for any programming, language or other
tools.
But first things first.
Let's do a demo with the python code.
All the artifacts for this demo is saved under this python code folder.
So if I go inside, I have three python code, two for the actual code and one for you testing and the
Jenkins file pretty straightforward.
So this add to start py accepts two numbers and then returns the added value of those two numbers.
And this add to false actually uses a function named calc and this calc has this add two function which
takes argument one, argument two, and then it just returns the addition of that to let's go through
the test underscore calc py python uses this assert equal statement.
So what you do is you call the function such as result equal to calc dot add two.
So add two is the function and then you pass in the two numbers one and two and the result should match
three.
Similarly, for the second test case, we are passing 10.5 and two and the result should match 12.5.
If this does not match three or 12.5, then it is going to error out this line and the unit test will
fail.
All right.
Now let's take a look at the important part, which is Jenkins file.
So the big change in the Jenkins file, the agent is none.
Generally, so far we have been using agent any so which will use the AC two.
So what this means is every stage need to specify their own agent.
So the first stage is build and the agent we are using is this image python and it's tagged with two
dash alpine.
So this is the Docker image.
Unless otherwise specified, all the image will come from Docker Hub.
So if I go to Docker Hub and then you search for Python.
So the first one Python is the official image.
That's what we are grabbing.
And a two dash.
Alpine is a tag.
It's a pretty lightweight python image, pretty standard.
And you can go take a look at the actual tag and see what version a python is running and all the other
details.
All right.
Going back to Jenkins file, then we are running the actual steps.
This step runs the Python command to compile the application into bytecode file, so bytecode files
end with a dot PC extension and we are placing those bytecode files into Python code folder.
So I want to show you folks that.
So I'm also running LZ Dash L Python code to show you the byte code.
I don't get confused.
The python at the end of the day is still an interpreted language.
Every time you run a python for the first time, it converts the code into the bytecode and then the
interpreter goes through the byte code.
So one interesting thing is the lifespan of your agent is limited to the stage it is bind to.
So in this case they are this agent is only used in this stage build.
So as soon as this build stage is finished, this agent is going to die.
So which brings me to the next point.
Whenever you are stashing the files or saving some files, these files are actually getting saved where
the actual Jenkins is running, which is easy, too, so they are not going to go away.
All right.
So now let's take a look at the test stage.
So for this, we are grabbing this CUNY slash PI test.
You can go check it out in Docker Hub.
This one is also a very popular container image.
This has pi test installed and this S-H step executes PY tests by the test command on the test underscore
calc dot py program which we went through, which runs a set of unit tests.
And then whether passes or fails, that does does the unit does x html option max py test generate a
unit XML report which we are saving inside a folder called test does reports in a results xml.
So when you run this unit test, it's a standard practice to generate this unit test reports and then
you can create dashboards.
So how many tests pass failed all that stuff.
And then just for fun, I'm also displaying the content of that results dot XML file.
We also have post section under this test stage, this unit command archives, the unit XML report and
exposes the results through the Jenkins interface.
You will see how it looks in a minute when we run this.
All right.
On that note, let's jump into the Jenkins and point our job to this Jenkins file.
So we have a pipeline, Jenkins job.
At this point, you all know how to create the Jenkins job.
This is a pipeline job.
I named this job build test with Docker.
And the important part is I'm pointing this Jenkins job to the repository.
The branch is main and I'm pointing to Python code slash Jenkins file to point it to the Jenkins file
we just walked through.
So let's save this and then click build now.
All right, let's go to console output.
All right.
You can see it's running the Docker run with the image and everything.
And then we ran the compile Python command.
So then it stashed the five files and remember we ran a long listing so you could see it generated Atwell's
PC and Calc PC.
So now we are going to the unit testing.
So now it's running the cube slash pi test and then it ran the python test.
Everything went fine.
No failure here.
And I'm also showing the results dot XML.
All right, so our job ran fine.
So if we go back to the project, so see this test results trend failed skipped past.
So the J unit on the post section is doing this.
So this is the number one run.
Everything is passed past five test cases.
So as you run more stuff you will see more trends.
So I just ran this job again.
So now you could see number one.
Number two.
So let's just for fun, I'm just going to make one of the test cars fail, all right.
In the GitHub, I'm just going to change one of the values.
So even if we expect three, I'm going to change this to four.
Okay.
So the first one.
Is going to fail.
So scroll down, let's commit changes.
Go back to our Jenkins job and click Build now.
All right, so the test stage failed, but remember that in our Jenkins file, whether it's passed or
fail, we will always post Jamie's reports.
So if we go back to the job and refresh this page.
All right, you could see for the number three, one failed and four passed.
All right, folks, this is how you build and unit test your code using Docker container agent in Jenkins.
Again, this is a pretty important concept, so I rewatch rerun as needed.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture by.